[Music]
well hey everyone I'm excited to bring
you um an amazing guest um Professor SE
Frey okay he's the author of this book
right here cancer as a metabolic disease
this is an this is my new favorite book
Incredible you need a little bit of
biochemistry to get through it but
there's a lot of parts that are really
easy to understand and um so uh
Professor CED has taught and conducted
research in the field of neurogenetics
neurochemistry and cancer for more than
25 years at yel University Boston
College he's published more than 150
scientific articles and book chapters
and is on the editorial Boards of
nutrition and Metabolism Journal of
lipid research neurochemical research
and ASN neuro so welcome and I really
appreciate you spending some time
talking with me today oh thanks Eric
it's nice to be here absolutely um I
think it's important to start out um if
we could on the the big idea here where
um and kind of if you could do it in
late person's uh language just to
describe the difference between uh a
normal cell and cancer cell I think
that's important to just talk about that
yeah well um there are many differences
uh the prime difference in my mind is
the difference in in the way the cells
generate
energy and um all of the cells in our
body need to generate energy and uh
otherwise they die you know I mean
energy is energy so our whole bodies we
breathe in oxygen and we give off CO2
and produce water as byproducts of
aerobic respiration so aerobic
respiration basically is how normal
cells or healthy cells make energy they
take the protein fat and carbs with
oxygen that's aerobic equals energy the
tumor cell on the other hand um pretty
much functions without oxygen so uh in
order to function without oxygen uh this
is referred to as fermentation so the
term fermentation is a primitive or
ancient system of how cells can make
energy without oxygen the two main fuel
sources for cancer are sugar and
glutamine which is a protein so um all
tumor cells as far as I can see and as
far as I've looked at are more dependent
on fermentation for energy than they are
for uh respiration for energy using
oxygen so this is why they live in
hypoxic environments they can survive in
these environments because they
primarily ferment um and when you
ferment you become Limited in in the
types of fuels that you need because it
oxidative phosphorilation respiration is
an
extremely efficient way to generate ATP
energy so the term oxidative
phosphorilation is the final stage in
respiration which is how normal cells or
healthy cells make energy you need a
little bit of material like glucose or
some other fat or whatever and you can
generate large amounts of energy just
from respiration but if you don't
respire the fermentation pathways are
less efficient therefore the substrates
have to be present in large amounts so
the tumor cell is dependent on large
amounts of glucose and large amounts of
glutamine and those are the two primary
fermentable fuels so the differences
between a normal cell and a cancer cell
is primarily the way they generate
energy the tumor cell needs to ferment
the normal cells can respire got it and
um can you touch on the origin of cancer
because I think uh
mainstream research is is really focused
on this genetic piece but they're not
getting into the metabolic or the damage
to the mitochondria can you touch on
that well I mean that's the oncogenic
Paradox so anagenic means something that
causes tumors and Paradox in this
context means something that sounds
logical but leads to an unacceptable
conclusion cancer can be caused by many
different insults to our body um
carcinogens you know people people look
at that and they say well that's why we
call something a
carcinogen because it has the potential
to cause cancer in laboratory animals
and humans you know radiation causes
cancer viruses cause cancer so the
question is how are these how are these
provocative agents causing cancer the
gene Theory says that the carcinogen
will cause mutations and the mutations
then lead to disregulated cell growth so
you have to say What is the
primary characteristic of tumor and it
is disregulated cell growth so how does
a cell under normal conditions become
disregulated in its growth so a for
example a
carcinogen um is thought to cause a type
of mutation which will then cause the
tumor cell to uh become growth uh
unrestricted um and and if you look at
radiation is thought to cause mutations
some viruses are thought to cause
mutations and these mutations were
thought to be the cause of the cancer
however every one of those same
provocative agents also damages the
mitochondria in the cell the very
organel needed for normal
respiration now what happens is a
carcinogen will enter into the
mitochondria leading to the formation of
Ross reactive oxygen species which are
cogens and mutagens so the term reactive
oxygen species Ross is a reactive
compound containing oxygen can be formed
from within the cell as a byproduct of
something or externally from things like
smoking chemicals drugs radiation so
what happens the mitochondria produces
Ross which then causes the mutations so
the mutations are an effect of the
damage to the respiration not the cause
of the cancer the cancer and the
mutations are both effects of the damage
to the respiration so this changes the
whole game is to what the nature of this
disease is and we went through and
documented very carefully all of the
different agents that cause cancer and
every one of them damag first damages
the respiration leading to Ross leading
to the mutations so this whole concept
of of
mutations is mostly nonsense it's
absolutely a misdirected effort which is
uh uh and the tragic consequences over
1600 people a day are dying from cancer
as the result of this tragic
misunderstanding of the nature of the
disease wow so um have you ever done any
research or heard about research being
done using something like um ip6 phytic
acid as a powerful anti accident to
counter some of the free radical
damage um well that's more would be in
line of prevention so um you know the if
you can prevent free fre radical damage
to your mitochondria you're going to
prevent cancer so a free radical is an
atom with an unpaired electron normally
atoms have paired electrons free radical
has unpaired so it makes it highly
reactive antioxidants give up their
electron to
stabilize the atom making it neutral
cancer does not start with normal
mitochondria so things that would be uh
um uh reducing reactive oxygen species
or inflammation or things like this
would all be important in preventing the
disease but once the disease starts you
have an altogether different strategy
that's needed wow are there um
microscopic cancer cells in in pretty
much everyone is there any data on that
um you know I I I'm not sure about that
I mean most healthy tissues you don't
see cancer cells you know you only see
cancer cells when they become uh enough
to see you know make they make these
statements you know we all have cancer
yeah we we all those cells are usually
destroyed you know and um taken care of
well we we turn over our cells all the
time um you know when a cell gets
damaged it's turned over I mean we have
a we have a maintenance system they turn
over the cells a cancer cell it would be
a cell that would not be turned over now
um do we have precancerous lesions I
think uh if we have focal inflammatory
SE sections we would have certain these
are referred to often times as poops or
something along these lines you know
small growths and things but they're
generally benign they're not they're not
of the of a more invasive malignant
characteristic so I guess you can say
that we probably have these things but
it's only when the tumor cell begins to
invade the local environment and
proliferate that we have an issue got it
so so discuss some of the research that
you talked about in some of the other
videos uh using ketogenic in a minute
fasting and also Dawn um and maybe you
can Define that well da is a is a
glutamine analog it's um I can I can
always I don't have the the the
structure memorized but it's 6 AO
noraline and uh the anacronym of course
is Dawn d n but this is a glutamine
targeting drug uh we have not found any
drug more powerful than Dawn at this
point um people um because cancer needs
needs the two fuels glucose and
glutamine so basically the ketogenic
diet is targeting your glucose uh and
Shifting the whole body off to ketones
tumor cells can't use ketones because
you need a good mitochondria and if
people say cancers use ketones that
would mean they have a normal
mitochondria and they wouldn't be cancer
in the first place so um you find a lot
of misinformation and misunderstanding
on on a part of a significant number of
scientists by the way that still are
confused by this so it's not just the
lay public they depended on the
scientists who themselves are also
confused many of them not all of them
about these issues so the tumor cell
needs glutamine and glucose some tumors
are more dependent on glucose than
glutamine some are more dependent on
glutamine than glucose many of them need
both glucose and glutamine so it's one
of these kinds of things but if you take
away both glucose and glutamine I don't
know if any tumor cell none of that none
that we have ever found can survive
without their two key fermentable fuels
so da is one of the drugs that targets
and and takes away the glutamine whereas
the ketogenic diet takes away the
glucose so together these two uh work
synergistically together and um would be
effective in my mind of of probably
managing the vast majority of all types
of cancers the the question is you know
there's not a
single uh
Hospital uh Cancer Research Center
anywhere in the world it's doing this so
this is the reason why we have 1 1600
people a day dying from a disease it's
just becomes clear you know you're not
doing the right things
if you did the right things you wouldn't
have these people would be alive right
and what kind of um uh some success have
you seen on these experiments that you I
watched another video that you're you're
combining these three strategies and
getting some pretty good amazing major
effects yeah we are and when we do it in
we haven't really you know if you go
back in the literature and look at at
dawn with patients um there some people
did really well and some people didn't
do so well
um and none of the none of the previous
studies ever targeted glutamine
simultaneously with targeting glucose uh
with glutamine and glucose so so people
use ketogenic diets and think you're
going to cure cancer with a ketogenic
diet not if it's a glutamine dependent
tumor you're not so so people have to
realize that it's you got if you don't
hit both both fuels
simultaneously um and they always so
well the cancer cells are smart they're
not smart and they adapt they don't
adapt they're they're just using the
fuels that are EnV in the environment
and if you don't take the fuels away
from the environment it's going to look
like they're adapting and it's going to
look like they're smart but they're not
so they're very they're they're
dependent on two fuels and and if though
if they have access to those fuels they
will survive if the fuels are taken away
they will not survive it's not a
complicated problem it's just that when
you're chasing genes and you think
cancer is a genetic disease you don't
think about any of this stuff right I
mean it's just the know where are you
looking you know so it's not you know
when we do it in our preclinical systems
which the best there are because we
developed the real models for
representing real cancer it's very hard
to kill these in in the mouse uh but
when we when we combine this the two
strategies together we're getting great
success and and we are TR targeting
glutamine in patients not with Dawn yet
because it's it's not available um in in
sufficient quantities people don't know
how to use it um a lot of the clinicians
are concerned about this or that but um
you know it's less toxic than most of
the stuff they're already giving these
poor cancer patients um so so you know
what's going to happen I mean we're
working with clinical groups and and uh
oncology groups uh in different
countries which are more open to uh
trying these kinds of things and and and
we are achieving great success in a
number of patients for all kinds of
cancers because cancer is one disease
it's all the same whether you have a a
lymphoma a brain tumor a colon tumor a
breast tumor a bladder tumor it's all
the same they they ferment it's such a
simple it's it's it I mean it's just
like you can you can kill the whole
group of them just by knowing how to use
one tool so um yeah it's astonishing uh
and who's doing this
nobody only because people don't
understand go down to the top oncology
clinics and tell tell them what I just
told you and they look at like deer in a
headlight they wouldn't know what it's
not but it's not that lay people
understand this better than the guys are
actually treating the disease yeah it's
really it's hard to teach people who uh
know it all or at least they know it all
well if they know it all how come we
have 1600 people a day dying I mean
obviously don't know that much they have
a lot of fixed ideas yeah well and and
the the tragic consequences is all these
poor people suffering and dying that's
the consequences of the lack of
knowledge it really is so you said
there's a there's I think uh there's
several clinical studies going on right
now um using these strategies around the
world well I wouldn't call them clinical
studies I I would call them patients
being treated all right so um because
you know my colleagues are overwhelmed
with patients who have all kinds of
cancers and we we they I'm not a
physician but they consult with me and
we design strategies uh and the patients
are doing well now are they part of a
what we call a clinical trial um where
it would be set up as if we were testing
a new drug no the answer is no uh are we
getting survivors that are looking
pretty healthy the answer is yes so how
would we a clinical trial well first of
all you have to have people that
understand how to do the the procedure
and second of all you have to go against
the standard of care which doesn't allow
you to do this because it's not
appropriately designed in the light of
what what the standard procedures are so
when they say we're going to do a
clinical trial only after you do uh
radiation and chemotherapies are your L
the whole thing is just doesn't work and
um you know the pharmaceutical companies
and the top medical schools have
designed procedures where double blank
crossovers are used which are the
strategy for a single drug looking at
some particular one thing we're using
diets we're using combinations of drugs
and procedures cocktails you know all
done in different dosage timing and
scheduling the ultimate goal is can you
keep this guy alive right healthy is he
not sick I mean these are the 10 points
you know and this doesn't fit with the
current standards of what you're
considered a clinical trial so this is
blocked right from the beginning so so
what you want to do is how many people
can we write up as case reports people
that should be dead that are still alive
without hair loss without sickness
without any of these kinds of things and
keep publishing these papers and this is
what we do and eventually somebody's
gonna say I want to do that right right
yeah there's just probably not a lot of
money in this because um I mean it's
it's I mean there there's a lot of money
in medication but there's not probably a
lot of funding and this just part
funding yeah well you can't you know
what do you you know you get a lot of to
study cancer and you get a lot of money
to treat the disease but you don't get
much money if you're tempting to resolve
it you know um so you know we're in the
resolution business and um every person
that walks longer on the planet than
they should have been is a success in
itself so we're interested more in these
survivors these long the so-called rare
long-term survivors that you should not
see like fleo blastoma pancreatic cancer
and these kinds of things
Advanced lung and breast metastatic
breast cancer I mean if you keep people
alive on a regular basis far longer than
they should have been then you know you
know you're on the right path now what
we do here at Boston College is we faret
out the mechanisms by which this works
so um This Then Fall you're falling back
on hard science you're not falling back
on you know some some mysterious unknown
thing so we we characterize the
molecular mechanisms by which all this
works then we go into the uh and it is
funny because all these companies they
use these preclinical models and most of
the time it doesn't work when you get
something that works in a pre-clinical
model oh well that's only a
mouse so you have to show it works in
humans in fact the humans do better than
the mice so so um so how many more of
these patients and Publications yeah
we're working on this my friends bring
me the data who um who work in the
clinics and we sit down and uh we write
up the case reports and we publish them
and they get a lot of recognition but
you know there the problem is you can't
Institute this yet at the top medical
schools because it goes against the
standards of care you have to change
your standard of care which means you
gotta primarily get rid of radiation and
primarily get rid of toxic chemo
and and those two aren't going away
anytime
soon I see the problem it's pretty
obvious yeah it's clear it's clear so um
but you know Revenue generation you know
we use hyperbaric oxygen um you know the
some of the we some of my colleagues use
the lowest of the lowd does chemo only
because they have to you know we really
don't need to use that but um you know
there's other ways you can probably
generate Revenue I'm not into the
generation Revenue business I'm just
into the business of knowing is the is
this is the therapeutic strategy
effective does it work and and and do we
have evidence to support that and what
is the science behind it because that's
my job okay so if I can show that it
works and this based on a solid
scientific background then it becomes it
becomes unconscionable not to use it
right exactly I agree now in your book
you mentioned this term I've never heard
about it before inflammatory enota taxis
inflammatory enot taxis is a term used
to describe how cancer tends to invade
areas of inflammation trauma or injury
well this is a a provocation of a of a
somewhat semi malignant state so um uh
it the the the inflammatory micro
environment will stimulate tumor cells
or incipient tumor cells to move um and
we we have this and it's um wound uh in
other words you can we have shown and
others um have shown that the metastatic
cancer cell is actually part of our
immune system it's a maccrage a maccrage
is one of the cells in our
bodies it's a very it's a very important
cell for killing bacteria repairing
wounds and this kind of thing so these
cells are like the toughest cell in our
body they can survive in hypoxic
environments they they they they're a
real a real tough cell um these cells
fused with some of these other kinds of
um I would say not benign um stem kind
of cells that don't have the capacity to
move around your body and and they they
form these micro environments that um
cause Fusion hybridization now you have
a Mac uh a a tumor cell that has the
capacity to spread through your whole
body based on the on the genetic
behavior of the macran so so does it
morph into a maccrage or is it kind of
just experiencing it seems to be some
sort of a hybrid condition where the the
cancer stem cell which doesn't have the
capacity to metastasize fuses with a
normal cell um and then they become this
hybrid cell now the hybrid cell of
course has damaged respiration so you
have a cell that's uh that's um disre at
in its growth but also has the capacity
to spread around the body so so and
these cells home in on wounds and U are
provoked by by by different kinds of
micro environments so the the the the
example um one of the examples we use
for inflammatory enot taxis is when
people take needle biopsies of cancer
cancer tissues like in breast for
example you know they always say well
let's do a needle biopsy on this
person's breast tumor to characterize
genetic mutations that might be there
right so what they do is they take a
needle biopsy of a potentially B benign
growth which then forms a inflammatory
enot taxis situation leading to the the
the the the spread of a previously
benign tumor into a malignant tumor by
the very fact that you took the to to to
test it to see what kind of cancer it
might be right so this poor woman who
may have had a benign tumor now has a
malignant tumor just because some guy
wants to look at the gene mutations in
the tumor which I mean absolutely
nothing anyway so you put this person at
terrible risk you know it doesn't happen
all the time but it happens
significantly enough that there's a
Publications on this not only for they
do needle biopsies and a lot of
different kinds of tumors and this is
what happens so you put the person at
risk uh by spreading the tumor when it
wasn't necessary to spread in the first
place this is one of the reasons why
they they got rid of the morcellation
procedure for removing uterine polyps
and females right so this was the
Johnson and Johnson machine that would
be uh grind up your uterine pops and
sucking up and there a physician from
Harvard young lady a physician herself
got metastatic uterine cancer and died
from the morcellation procedure and then
they found out that this was uh common
and not common uh it happened
significantly enough to know that there
was a real problem well this is all an
example of of inflammatory anot taxis
you're you're stabbing you're stabbing a
beehive and you don't want the bees to
come out right so the best thing do is
use metabolic therapy shrink it down
into a tiny little thing and then
surgically debulk it so you never stick
it with anything you just get rid of it
so once you understand the biology of
the disease you'll realize that most of
what we do in the cancer field would
never be should never be done so and
this it comes back to the lack of
knowledge on the biology of the disease
so once you understand the biology you
there's certain things you should never
do and yet they do it all the time
insane so basically what what he's
talking about guys is that um cancer
tends to invade areas of inflammation
and mechanical injury right yeah yeah
you can injure it's called It's called
The investigator uh by by investigating
you provoke and it's inflammatory enot
taxis leading to the spread of the
disease so um you know you don't want to
do that but yet here's the situation you
get the the the insurance companies will
pay $7,200 to have you get a full
readout of the gene mutations in your
tumor so there's a there's an there's an
Financial incentive to take it a needle
bio biopsy just to see the mutations
which as I said mean nothing anyway so
so uh but you put that you potentially
can put a patient at risk for spreading
the Disease by an analyzing information
that's largely worthless wow wow yeah
because even in my clinic I I just
noticed i' observed um when people with
cancer they usually always had a
pre-existing injury like I had a guy
fell on his back of his neck on the
brain stem he developed cancer on brain
stem another person got hit with a
baseball in the breast she got cancer on
that location I just found that
interesting that uh there's this
correlation between old injury sometimes
if there there are reports uh that if
you have an incipient metastatic lesion
in your body and you get a wound in
another part of your body the tumor
cells will move from from one site over
to the wound site wow that was also
reported for people who had tooth
extraction because if you take an
extracted tooth you create a great big
wound in your gum and uh tumor cells
like from from a lung uh and in small
lung metas would would then invade the
wound in the tooth and uh this is
because it's a maccrage macras is do
this so it all comes back to what what
the biology of the metastatic cell is
and when you know it's a maccrage you
say what do they eat well they they're
heavily glutamine dependent so you just
take away their glutamine so once you
know the biology of the of the thing
there's so many easy ways to kill these
cells
wow I think it's it's hard to avoid
glutamine in the diet because it's in
almost every food you yeah you can't you
can't you have to use drugs and that's
why we use Dawn and egcg the green tea
extract which you know we're still
looking into that uh possibly chloroquin
there are a number of other drugs that
could be uh used that would be
specifically targeting the tumor cell
well well not harming the normal cells
wow wow um on your website I think on
the website that you have there's a
place where people can donate as well to
the Boston College right specifically to
your research yeah we have the Boston
College um uh cancer Fund in my name H
we also have a lot of people donating to
uh Travis
kristofferson's um um metabolic therapy
it used to be called The Single cause
single cure Foundation he set that
Foundation up to support our work um
which 100% of the 100 100% of the money
he raises goes to the research not not
not 90% 100% see that's that's what I
was going to ask you because with all
this cancer breast research I mean it's
rarely if you would get hardly anything
so this is really good news well you
know you know it's very interesting we
get a lot of small donations sometimes
you know people will throw in bigger
amounts but um you know and most of the
people that contact me are people that
that uh don't have a lot of means um the
people with great insurance policies and
who are who are people of means they go
to the top medical schools the top
cancer re research centers uh to get
treated which is like you know so the
people that will survive will be the
people the people who have don't have M
money means basically the poor people
would be the ones that'll survive cancer
right right better than the rich people
you know because because what we what we
do is we we target the ba basic biology
the the tragedy is right now is that the
um we don't have enough Physicians that
are trained to do this so there's a huge
gap in in how in what we understand and
in the actual uh um procedures to treat
the patients and this is where the
tragedy is I think because because the
poor the physicians in the medical
schools are never trained to understand
cancer as a metabolic disease you know
they've been they've been indoctrinated
by the gene Theory and they think
therefore radiation and chemo become a
logical uh approach to managing the
disease um but when you understand that
this is not the nature of the disease
then all that stuff makes no sense it
harms the patient right it causes
tremendous Grief Strategy I mean it
really it really puts now of course
there's many cancer patients that
survive standards of care but their
bodies have been beat up and they take
tremendous risk in putting themselves at
risk for other kinds of maladies in the
future yeah so so so so basically um we
raise money through um these private
found Travis's christopherson's private
Foundation basically and through Boston
College um uh my our own University uh
web page and they at on even on my um
Boston College uh preview page there's
ways that people can donate to the uni
to the university um that way as well
I'm going to put some links down below
um because I know a lot of people want
to donate to this um what um what are
the success rates of the cancer uh
therapies that are going on right now I
I know it's not great um as far as um I
don't know what they Define as being
successful but um yeah well the top you
know you hear all uh on the news right
now is the uh immunotherapies you know
katuda the newest one is the cart
cart T you know um immunotherapy where
uh it's just beyond my comprehension
that now why anybody would would do
stuff like this I mean it's just um very
complicated very risky very very very
expensive um you know patients they take
your te- cells for lymphomas and they
and they genetically engineer your T te-
cells at a different site and then you
put those gen those engineered te- cells
are now supposed to Target and track
down the cancer cells in your body and
then your body has to be purged of any
of its regular cells and it's it's just
I call these kinds of therapies rubbe
Goldberg machines they're they're very
very complicated ways of doing something
very simple um you know the goal is
trying to track and kill tumor cells
using
immunotherapy um and these immunotherapy
sometimes can be Go Wild on you they
could start attacking your normal organs
you know it's it's like letting a pack
of wild dogs loose you know so they
could sometimes turn on you and um and
you know there are success stories I
mean there certainly are success but
there's just an equal number of of
tragedies and deaths I mean why would
you ever want to treat a patient with
something that has the possibility of
harming or killing them right that
should not be a part of the equation at
all
exactly totally insane it's insane and
especially when all you have to do is
take away glucose and glutamine yeah and
especially these lymphomas these you
know these diffuse Bell infom they're
all dependent on glutamine so all you
have to do is Target glutamine why why
are we doing this I think it's too
simple that's the problem it's too
simple that's the truth it is too simple
um and uh only B it's simple because you
have been indoctrinated to think cancer
is an extremely complicated disease yeah
then you chase complication with more
complication and and and and you create
these incredibly expensive and
complicated immunotherapeutic procedures
but all you have to do is take away
glucose and glutamine you know because
and then they'll say well that's not
proven what do you mean it's not proven
there's a thousand articles in the
literature proven what I just said is
you choose to ignore it exactly you know
yeah what I'm saying is is it's there's
thousands of articles in the scientific
literature supporting what I'm
saying yeah you have I mean this this
book is I don't know how long it took
you to write this but this is quite an
amazing book you have all the the
arguments against the theory and you you
just go right through and and just you
know explain they're missing data it's
false they haven't read it they so
there's just so much great data in here
um I'm just thly impressed yeah it took
a while to write it you know but at some
point in your life when you have
collected enough data to say there
something seriously wrong here and ano
warberg was really the guy who who
started this back in the
1920s and he clearly defined what the
origin of the disease was which was
damage to the mitochondrial respiration
the problem is he didn't have all of the
other aspects of this there were some
missing parts to his argument and those
few missing parts led to the the the
idea that he was wrong uh he wasn't
wrong he was spoton it's just that he
did not have all of the new evidence
that we now have to support glutamate
yeah he did not know about glutamine
amino acid fermentation he he just knew
about glucose fermentation so so he
didn't know the other half and that's
why people think he was wrong he wasn't
wrong he was right he just didn't have
all the parts of the puzzle so we have
now filled in those gaps and we know
that he was right and now the disease
can be managed in a much more less toxic
in a more effective manner it's just
that right now we've built a massive
industry around this cancer thinking
that we have to treat these P patients
with all this expensive toxic stuff and
and you don't really need to do that and
then when somebody comes along like me
to tell them that hey you're on the
wrong wrong path they're going to find
every thousand reasons why I'm wrong and
uh and the answer is I'm basing it on
thousands of scientific articles
published in the top research journals
in the world which you have right in
this book yeah and there's many many
more you know it's coming they're coming
out all the time so it's very it's very
interesting in the cancer research
industry um many people have have found
that glucose and glutamine are are are
primary they what they don't do is they
don't they don't take that and bring it
to the clinic so and the clinicians who
are treating with radiation chemo can't
believe that you can cure cancer in such
a short I want to say cure but you can
certainly manage it um we don't know
about curing I don't like to use the
word cure because we don't really know
but if you're alive far longer than you
were predicted to be uh I don't want to
say you're cured you're certainly
long-term managed and isn't that the
goal is that do yeah and I think even
you me you mentioned in some of the my
studies there was was it 14 or 15 days
you saw you saw some significant changes
with cancer being destroyed right yeah
oh absolutely I mean we're we're hunting
now we've got some of the the finest uh
Pathologists on the planet uh hunting
for surviving cancer cells in the
tissues so so uh you know we're looking
you know we've killed sometimes it's so
hard and when you look at a a tissue
that's been treated with metabolic
therapy I mean it's just a Slaughter
these tumor cells are dead and dying
everywhere so U and we and and sometimes
you get so overwhelmed and say wow look
at the mass death but is there any is
there anybody live in that population
that we should be concerned about
right right we're trying to find we're
trying to find the needle in the hay
stack the live cell that made it through
the metabolic therapy so um and that's
where we're we're now and I'm working
with colleagues in Venezuela who are
just superb Pathologists the best I've
ever seen and we're really hunting down
to see if we can find any cell that can
survive this metabolic therapy wow yeah
that's because if you can't if you can't
find that that would uh mean that this
is 100% I mean it's it's the way to go
we can't say that for sure like we can't
say that every single cell because you
know we we found that some of these
macras kinds of cells um they also can
fze and eat dead cells so um they can
get their glucose and glutamine by
eating a dead cell that was
killed wow amazing that's why that's why
we have to go after uh their lomes which
are their internal stomach and you put
in ant acids so they can't digest what
they just ate so what what once you
understand the biology you can really
get excited on the numerous ways you can
kill these cancer cells without harming
the rest of the body so it's going to be
very exciting once the once the medical
field comes to know how how how to do
this it's going to be you know wow you
know here's a new patient let's see how
many ways we can kill his cancer cells
and keep them healthy and besides what
we're finding is many of these cancer
patients have all kinds of other met
metabolic maladies they have high
triglycerides they've got type two
diabetes they've got all kinds of other
issues well all that goes away you're
killing the tumor
cells wow so these patients get much
healthier and they have and their cancer
is managed so uh it's a it's a strategy
that works on multiple different fronts
wow is there is there any clinics now
that are doing um I mean existing doing
some of this yeah we have the main one
is in Istanbul Turkey where where Dr
barard also read my book and he realized
that we need to do something different
um and uh they then develop the chemo
therapy assisted metabolic therapy where
they're using very very low doses of
chemo um just barely within the ra
within the guidelines of standard of
care and then doing metabolic therapy
which includes insulin potentiation
hypobaric oxygen ketogenic diets this
kind of thing so insulin potentiation
therapy is a therapy that uses a very
small amount of chemo usually 75 to 90%
less ch
since cancer cells have 10 to 20 times
more receptors for insulin because they
love sugar they're addicted to it so by
giving a cancer patient insulin you can
drop the blood sugars make the cancer
cell really really
hungry add the small amount of chemo
they suck it up and die hyperbaric
oxygen therapy is a treatment in which
you put someone in a chamber of high
pressure and then you infuse oxygen to
increase healing and they're getting
spectacular results on all kinds of of
stage four they only do stage four
metastatic cancers wow you know and
they're doing they're getting results on
on uterine cancer p uh ovarian Advanced
Breast pancreatic cancer and then my
colleagues in in Egypt uh Alexandria are
using on on gly blastoma so they're
getting pretty good results on on gly
blastoma that's one of the most
aggressive uh brain tumors right it used
to
be
not anymore not anymore wow so you know
um so if you know what you're doing and
you know how to do it uh many of these
so-called uh terminal cancers uh May no
longer be terminal and um but you know
the problem is so many people come to me
after having failed radiation and chemo
immunotherapy whatever they're throwing
at you and by that time your whole body
is so beat up and so destroyed
uh sometimes they can't rally um you
can't get your normal cells to Rally to
destroy the tumor cells because you have
been so compromised by an inefficient uh
treatment strategy uh and there's a
tragedy right there so on the other hand
there are some people who have been beat
up to hell I can't believe that they're
still walking who have been rescued uh
from this um so I've seen it all I mean
we've seen one or another we don't
rescue everyone uh but if we hit the
these guys up upfront with the metabolic
therapy I think we' probably get an 80
to 85 to 90% uh management rate without
toxicity so when people and nobody can
believe this they say well this can't be
but why why can't you believe it you
don't read scientific literature what's
the matter with we read it and we
understand it and we see it when we do
it right so it's not just preclinical my
preclinical system is designed to help
the physicians in the clinic use the
right dosage timing and strategies on
their Pati
so it's a kind of a we're one of the few
groups that actually does translational
research where we take research from the
mice and put it directly into the hum so
people talk the talk they don't walk the
walk right yeah we do do you do you find
that if um if you had a lot more money
could you do a lot more research I mean
is is that lacking right now or is there
um yeah yeah that's absolutely right I
mean obviously you know we're working
with
undergraduates and part-time
professionals uh and we could streamline
this whole thing 10 times faster if we
had more research you know when we apply
for research grants at the NIH they're
always asking you know what gen is
involved you know how what do you it's
irrelevant you know so and it's not
their fault because the GU sitting on
the study section all are interested in
supporting their own research and uh and
they're all looking at different drugs
and and genes and this kind of thing and
um so it's very hard to I used to have a
lot of money from the NIH when I wasn't
trying to cure the disease
as soon as you mention that you had
something that will work oh all the
research all the money stops God so then
we become dependent on private
foundations and the the goodness of
others that want to support this you
know they have a family member or
something like this but you know we
could bring this and and and uh my
colleagues that are in Istanbul and
they're overwhelmed at being trampled by
the number of patients that are coming
into their clinics they they don't have
the time that they would like to have uh
um and they're also under the gun uh by
their own uh their their their own
colleagues are angry because um it's
just like having something that's you
know you're taking away all my patients
now they're all want or they all want to
go to your your side of the clinic and
not my side of the clinic and and and
you know and we're seeing more and more
of this so um everybody doing this is is
threatening a system um uh an entire
industry uh that's failed and we have we
and we know because I wouldn't speak
like this if I hadn't seen the results
myself so uh and the mice but um yeah
but we you know as I said in our press
pulse paper uh which was we published
with a couple of Physicians myself Joe
maroon who's the a neurosur surgeon at
University of Pittsburgh and team
surgeon for the Pittsburgh Steelers he
he's with us on this you know Dr George
U he's an oncologist Dom de austino my
colleague who does hyp bar baric oxygen
you know we're publishing these papers
but to really to really get to the heart
we there are so many new drugs that we
can combine for metabolic therapy with
ketogenic diets um you know you see more
and more people wanting to do this but
you know the knowledge base that we have
is greater than anyone else's because
we've been doing it before anyone else
did it right so um you know we've been
doing this for almost 20 years now but
we're just learning how many new
combinations non-toxic com combinations
that we can put together to resolve
cancer U but we need the research money
to do this and we want to show we we we
want to find a tumor somewhere that
doesn't respond to metabolic therapy and
we haven't found this yet so if we can
show that every major cancer is
demolished then um what more evidence do
what what what do we have to do right
yeah because there's always this wild
variable that well we can't understand
this one certain thing that doesn't
respond well if you can solve that that
so far we haven't found that one thing
you know it's just like because it's so
it's based so clearly on on what the
underlying me problem is yeah and uh and
then we have new now Dawn is pro we call
it a miracle drug um and they don't want
to use it because they said it was too
toxic but we we now have evidence that
when you combine with ketogenic di diet
the toxicity is significantly reduced
wow so we have a miracle drug and we
just have to prove that it's miracle for
every kind of cancer that
exists that's all oh okay good yeah so
you need money to do that because you
have to it's all labor intensive because
when you're doing um Mouse work uh the
mice are very very expensive and the
labor to do the research is expensive so
but expensive relative to what cart
therapy right which $400,000 a patient
oh insane well usually you know things
that really work are simple so
um you I'm just blown away by this
interview this is incredible yeah well
you know as I said try if you collect
questions because a lot of people have
many many kinds of questions not only
about the science but about the direct
applicability of this and and you will
hear a lot of questions um like oh what
about C listen I've I've had gotten
almost every kind of a question from
every kind of a physician from every
kind of a science researcher you know
how do you explain this how do you
explain that how do you explain this and
we go through and give them explan I
can't it's always something that comes
along we can't explain but then I throw
my Army of students on top of it and you
know within a few months we have an
explanation for it so um but generally
we can address because we already have
addressed most of the concerns yeah it's
it's actually all right in here it's
like you really explained everything in
detail well this we've we've put on new
we've actually have stronger evidence
for some of the things at the at the
beginning which wasn't completely clear
we even have it more clarified now wow
so um you know it's it's an emerging
it's an emerging field it's going to be
the new field metabolic therapies yeah
this is really exciting very exciting
and NDS you know those guys um they're
in they're the best strategists because
they love to take blood work they love
to do this they love to do that a lot of
the MDS don't do this kind of stuff and
um you know it'll open up cancer
treatment to a whole group of other
people that can actually facilitate the
treatment if we get rid of these toxic
drugs and radiation you don't have to be
going to a hospital to get right to get
these treatments you're talking about
naturopathic docs yeah and naturopathic
guys they seem to be more into looking
at all the blood work and things like
this and I've learned things from them
so they showed me things that I didn't
know before based on their treatment of
patients with ketogenic diets like
elevated vitamin D levels coming as the
as the as the fat is dissolved vitamin D
is released back into the blood you
start getting elevated vitamin D when
you you don't need to supplement as much
anymore so there's a lot of new things
that are coming as the result of all
this yeah so um it's going to be
exciting you know it's just that it's
frustrating because because the field
doesn't know it or doesn't want to know
about it but it's exciting to know that
you have a real strategy for the future
oh my gosh that that's what's nice to
know this is mind-blowing this is
actually very very exciting um I mean
wow I had all these questions now
they're they're
gone you answered them very
well um I really appreciate you uh
spending the time to educate us on this
incredible piece of observation and
knowledge and research and um I'm going
to put some links down below and I
definitely want in the future do some
updates of see where this is going and
um it's all very very exciting so I want
to thank you for the interview and uh I
really appreciate what you're doing
doing so much oh thank you Eric uh nice
to have your support thanks
absolutely